README.md, before:

three.cpp
=========

#### A port of three.js to C++ #####

[three.js](http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/) is a popular and
accessible 3D library (credits to mdroob and alteredq). The goal with three.cpp
is to fully implement the relevant portions of the library in C++11, up
to and including revision 50.

Before you start raging, see the [FAQ](#faq).


## Usage ##

three.cpp is optionally header-only; you can simply drop the
"three" folder in your project and get started, or you can compile it into a
static library (dynamic support to come).  The design is similar to that
found in [Boost Asio](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_51_0/doc/html/boost_asio.html).

### Setup ###
* `git clone git://github.com/jdduke/three_cpp`
* `cd three_cpp`

### As header-only library ###
* All set. Relevant library source files are in **three_cpp/three**, simply include and use.

### As compiled library ###
* `mkdir build`
* `cd build`
* `cmake ../ -DTHREE_HEADER_ONLY:BOOL=OFF`
* `make` (or compile generated .sln with VC)

This generates the static library `three_impl.{a/lib}` in **three_cpp/lib**.  Any code using the library must also define `THREE_SEPARATE_COMPILATION` when using three.cpp.

cmake-gui is useful if you need to configure SDL/GLEW path dependencies when compiling.


## Examples ##

Reviewing the examples in **three_cpp/examples** is probably the best way to learn how to use the library. Examples are built by default using the project files generated from CMake. To disable (assuming you're in **three_cpp/build**:

* `cmake ../ -DBUILD_THREE_EXAMPLES:BOOL=OFF`

Binaries are placed in **three_cpp/bin**.  On Windows, you will likely need to copy the SDL runtime library to the appropriate **three_cpp/bin** dir, assuming it's not in your path already.

## Sample code ##

This code creates a renderer, scene and camera, adds the camera and cube to the scene, then starts the rendering loop.

```c++

void scene() {

  using namespace three;

  auto renderer = GLRenderer::create();

  auto camera = PerspectiveCamera::create(
    75, renderer->width() / renderer->height(), 1, 10000
  );
  camera->position.z = 1000;

  auto scene = Scene::create();

  auto geometry = CubeGeometry::create( 200, 200, 200 );
  auto material = MeshBasicMaterial::create(
    Material::Paramaters().add( "color", Color(0xff0000) )
                          .add( "wireframe", true )
  );

  auto mesh = Mesh::create( geometry, material );
  scene->add( mesh );

  anim::gameLoop( [&]( float dt ) {

    mesh->rotation.x += 0.1f * dt;
    mesh->rotation.y += 0.2f * dt;

    renderer->render( *scene, *camera );

  } );

}

```

<!--
## Working examples ##

<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles3.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_hierarchy.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_hierarchy2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_minecraft.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_colors.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_cubes.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_sphere.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_billboards.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_billboards_colorspng">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_random.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_sprites.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader_lava.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_test_memory.png">
-->

## Status ##

This is very much a pre-alpha, early stages project: half-finished at best, with myriad TODO's and the like littered throughout. It's not pretty; effort was made to preserve the style/syntax/structure of the original library while not completely obviating the merits of native code . To be sure, this is as direct a port as possible; you will find things like public member variables, tight coupling and likely other code snippets that may or may not go against all you have come to believe in.  C++ is *not* Javascript.

* **Core** - 75% complete?
    * TODO: Morph targets, shadows, plugin support
* **Extras** - 5-10% complete?
    * TODO: Pretty much everything
* **Examples** - 25% complete?
    * TODO: Examples involving morph targets and/or model/json importing

### Performance ##
For the examples that have been ported, perf is anywhere from 2x-10x that of
three.js, average 4-5x, on my i7, GT 650m laptop (with vsync off on both, of course).
No thorough profiling or meaningful optimization has been done, and the graphics
path is more or less identical to that found in three.js.

TODO: Test with GLES (Android/iOS/NACL)

## Dependencies ##
* CMake
* SDL and GLEW for the examples (included for both MSVC and MinGW)

## Supported Platforms ##

You'll need a sufficiently modern C++11 compiler:
* >= Clang 3.1
* >= GCC 4.6.3
* (debateable) MSVC 2012

Implemented functionality tested via examples, and working on:
* Mint 13 with GCC 4.6.3
* Win 7 with both MSVC 2012 and MinGW (GCC 4.8 and 4.7)
* OSX with Clang 3.1

Some examples might be a little flaky on any given platform.  MSVC 2012 is really a pain to support (no variadics, no initializer lists, no default/deleted functions, no constexpr etc...), and support may be dropped at some point in the future.


## FAQ ##

* Why on earth would you do this?
    * It started as an exercise to 1) dive into a popular Javascript library of
     medium size, 2) play with C++11 and 3) offend as many programmers as possible.
* But, but, C++ is so... its very existence troubles my spirit... why not target awesome language X?!
    * For the kids.

Commit message:

Cleaning up samples.  Improving cmake build script.  Support for shared libraries. Improved stat rendering.

README.md, after:

three.cpp
=========

#### A port of three.js to C++ #####

[three.js](http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/) is a popular and
accessible 3D library (credits to mdroob and alteredq). The goal with three.cpp
is to fully implement the relevant portions of the library in C++11, up
to and including revision 50.

Before you start raging, see the [FAQ](#faq).


## Usage ##

three.cpp is optionally header-only; you can simply drop the
"three" folder in your project and get started, or you can compile it into a
static and/or dynamic library.  The design is similar to that
found in [Boost Asio](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_51_0/doc/html/boost_asio.html).

### Setup ###
* `git clone git://github.com/jdduke/three_cpp`
* `cd three_cpp`

### As header-only library ###
* All set. Relevant library source files are in **three_cpp/three**, simply include and use.

### As compiled library ###
* `mkdir build`
* `cd build`
* `cmake ../ -DTHREE_HEADER_ONLY:BOOL=OFF`
* `make` (or compile generated .sln with VC)

This generates the static library `three.{a/lib}` in **three_cpp/lib**, or the dynamic library `thre.{so/dll}` in **three_cpp/bin**, dependent on the `THREE_LIBRARY_STATIC` CMake flag.  Any code using the library must also define `THREE_SEPARATE_COMPILATION` when using three.cpp, and `THREE_DYN_LINK` if library is dynamic.

cmake-gui is useful if you need to configure SDL/GLEW path dependencies when compiling.


## Examples ##

Reviewing the examples in **three_cpp/examples** is probably the best way to learn how to use the library. Examples are built by default using the project files generated from CMake. To disable (assuming you're in **three_cpp/build**:

* `cmake ../ -DBUILD_THREE_EXAMPLES:BOOL=OFF`

Binaries are placed in **three_cpp/bin**.  On Windows, you will likely need to copy the SDL runtime library to the appropriate **three_cpp/bin** dir, assuming it's not in your path already.

## Sample code ##

This code creates a renderer, scene and camera, adds the camera and cube to the scene, then starts the rendering loop.

```c++

void scene() {

  using namespace three;

  auto renderer = GLRenderer::create();

  auto camera = PerspectiveCamera::create(
    75, renderer->width() / renderer->height(), 1, 10000
  );
  camera->position.z = 1000;

  auto scene = Scene::create();

  auto geometry = CubeGeometry::create( 200, 200, 200 );
  auto material = MeshBasicMaterial::create(
    Material::Paramaters().add( "color", Color(0xff0000) )
                          .add( "wireframe", true )
  );

  auto mesh = Mesh::create( geometry, material );
  scene->add( mesh );

  anim::gameLoop( [&]( float dt ) {

    mesh->rotation.x += 0.1f * dt;
    mesh->rotation.y += 0.2f * dt;

    renderer->render( *scene, *camera );

  } );

}

```

<!--
## Working examples ##

<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_custom_attributes_particles3.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_hierarchy.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_hierarchy2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_geometry_minecraft.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_colors.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_cubes.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_lines_sphere.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_billboards.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_billboards_colorspng">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_random.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_particles_sprites.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader2.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_shader_lava.png">
<img src="https://raw.github.com/jdduke/three_cpp/master/data/thumbs/webgl_test_memory.png">
-->

## Status ##

This is very much a pre-alpha, early stages project: half-finished at best, with myriad TODO's and the like littered throughout. It's not pretty; effort was made to preserve the style/syntax/structure of the original library while not completely obviating the merits of native code . To be sure, this is as direct a port as possible; you will find things like public member variables, tight coupling and likely other code snippets that may or may not go against all you have come to believe in.  C++ is *not* Javascript.

* **Core** - 75% complete?
    * TODO: Morph targets, shadows, plugin support
* **Extras** - 5-10% complete?
    * TODO: Pretty much everything
* **Examples** - 25% complete?
    * TODO: Examples involving morph targets and/or model/json importing

### Performance ##
For the examples that have been ported, perf is anywhere from 2x-10x that of
three.js, average 4-5x, on my i7, GT 650m laptop (with vsync off on both, of course).
No thorough profiling or meaningful optimization has been done, and the graphics
path is more or less identical to that found in three.js.

TODO: Test with GLES (Android/iOS/NACL)

## Dependencies ##
* CMake
* SDL and GLEW for the examples (included for both MSVC and MinGW)

## Supported Platforms ##

You'll need a sufficiently modern C++11 compiler:
* >= Clang 3.1
* >= GCC 4.6.3
* (debateable) MSVC 2012

Implemented functionality tested via examples, and working on:
* Mint 13 with GCC 4.6.3
* Win 7 with both MSVC 2012 and MinGW (GCC 4.8 and 4.7)
* OSX with Clang 3.1

Some examples might be a little flaky on any given platform.  MSVC 2012 is really a pain to support (no variadics, no initializer lists, no default/deleted functions, no constexpr etc...), and support may be dropped at some point in the future.


## FAQ ##

* Why on earth would you do this?
    * It started as an exercise to 1) dive into a popular Javascript library of
     medium size, 2) play with C++11 and 3) offend as many programmers as possible.
* But, but, C++ is so... its very existence troubles my spirit... why not target awesome language X?!
    * For the kids.
